---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

# Weekly Update 7

This week we were able to get the establish bluetooth communication between the collar and base station, set up collar to send accelerometer data via bluetooth, and set up the boost switching regulator.

Individual contributions are below:

Hafsa: Hafsa was able to implement the bluetooth and accelerometer for the collar to work simultaneously. She and Ishaan debugged a program size error, finding that sprintf was adding a lot of unneceesary memory claim for the program! Additionally, she was able to set threshholds for the accelerometer to only send data when the rate of change was in a certain range. Once callibrated, this will be used to check if the animal's head is tilted and drinking water. She and Ishaan tested this implementation by taking readings via the accelerometer, and within range, sending a true signal over the bluetooth, otherwise, sending false.

Ishaan: Ishaan worked on getting the Arduino Nano bluetooth integrated with the HM-10 used on the collar. The Nano is now able to automatically connect to the HM-10 whenever it is with range. He also set up the 3.3V boost switching regulator to power the collar from AA batteries. He also worked with Hafsa on testing of the collar bluetooth and accelerometer. 

Tanpreet: Tanpreet worked on designing the mobile application.

In the next week, Hafsa and Ishaan plan to have the PCB Board design for the collar, callibrate and test the collar to only send the true signal when an animal is likely drinking, and continue working on implementing the base station. Tanpreet plans to integrate bluetooth with the app. 
